>> Anjana Vakil: I'm not allowed
to write anything to the console.
I'm not allowed to write any files,
I'm not allowed to read any files.
I'm not allowed to make any fetch
requests or import any libraries or
do anything, basically,
except manipulate truth values.
[LAUGH] Unless you're like a weirdo
philosopher like me, [LAUGH] you probably
are like, how am I supposed to do any
actual programming with this thing?
And that's a very valid question
that is actually something that
the whole industry was asking itself for
many decades,
between in the 1930s when functional
programming was invented.
Essentially, by Alonzo Church, and today
when we have actual productive tools for
doing real-world programming
in functional land.
So how does that work?
Essentially, what we wanna
do is isolate the impurity.
We want to, in the programs
we're gonna look at today, and
in even super complex
functional programmings,
what we do is we push all of the impurity,
all of the side effects.
All of the reading files, whatever,
to the outer edge of the program,
and we make sure that all of that
impurity is just happening in
kind of that outer shell of what's
going on when I execute my program.
Then inside of my program,
once it has received whatever inputs it
needs from the impure code that is
interacting with the real world.
The inside core of the program
we keep pure and functional, so
that it's super predictable.
So even though our program itself
might not be deterministic now,
because we have this outer shell
that can contain impurities, like,
what's the file I should
write that output to?
Or which library should I be
using to generate random numbers,
that's not deterministic, right?
All of that gets pushed
to the furthest reaches,
the outermost, the kind of the very
top level of the program and
everything else stays pure so
that we can more easily predict.
Okay, if I am given this library for
making requests or
what have you,
everything else that follows from
that is going to be deterministic and
not have any side effects.
And that's where fancy jargon like
monads and whatnot also come in,
because there's a lot of different
techniques in functional programming,
which we'll look at for
isolating impurity.
And making sure that it's not
going to affect other parts
of the program that could
cause those unpredictabilities
that give us headaches as
JavaScript programmers.
So what we're gonna be doing here,
and this time you have
a little bit more realistic code,
we have this file render js,
that defines, well,
let's look at what it does.
First of all, here, it has some
functions that don't do anything,
it imports some value, and
then it does a bunch of stuff.
So we're making an SVG element,
configuring it,
setting its contents, and then?
>> Student: Getting it into the DOM,
attaching.
>> Anjana Vakil: Then we're
attaching it to the DOM.
So this is not functional code, [LAUGH]
none of this code is in a function,
first of all, so that's one clue.
But also we got a whole bunch of
impure things happening here, right?
Like replacing all of the children
of an element in the DOM,
that is not returning a value,
that is doing something in the world.
So your mission,
should you choose to accept it,
is to get these tests to pass,
which I'll let you read
through on your own,
by implementing the pure get SVG and
the impure render app functions.
And the idea here is we want to
isolate an impure Render app,
we want all of the messy side
effecting stuff to happen.
And in pure get SVG,
we want it to be a deterministic non-side
effecting function that will
always give me the same output.
So that then we know, yeah,
I might have some debugging to do
an impure Render app once I know but
for everything they
inside that pure get SVG,
I'm in functionally confident
deterministic rend, okay?
So the idea we're gonna move all
this imperative code, do this,
do that, assign this, update that.
We're gonna turn this into a little bit
more of a functional style by moving
this code around into those two functions,
cool?
So every time you edit something here, and
this is just a StackBlitz
tutorial kit thing.
If I edit something here,
like I don't know,
art, it will rerun the tests for you.
So once you see that green passing,
yeah, good.
And if you want to wipe out all of
the stuff that you've already done,
you can click the solve button, but don't
do that yet, cuz where's the fun in that?
[LAUGH] All right, there's also
a reset button, if you do click Solve,
there'll be a little reset button you can
get to go back to the original starter.